hello everybody my name is J I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers here at e to
language in this live class we're going
to do IELTS speaking we're going to look
at parts one two and three I'm basically
going to take you through a live test
simulation or a live mock test if you
like so you can imagine that I'm the
IELTS examiner and you're the student
what I'm going to show you it will be
precisely what will happen to you on
test day without all the nervous energy
perhaps anyway let's take a look so I'll
speaking part one two and three we're
going to do some timed practice so as
you probably know there are three parts
to IELTS speaking the first part is
small talk where the examiner will ask
you some simple questions then you'll do
a presentation and then you will have a
discussion about the topic that you
looked at in the presentation okay it's
pretty straightforward just before we
get started on part one I just
remembered I have to send you guys the
link here in the live class to do all
panelists I'm putting the link to the
YouTube live into the chat for you there
click on that link so you can watch it
on YouTube live if it's not formatting
on your screen properly right let's keep
going so part 1 of IELTS speaking is
pretty straightforward basically you're
going to get a simple question like this
the only thing you need to do is
elaborate on your answers I'm going to
give you 20 seconds to answer this
question starting now
you
okay so maybe 20 seconds was a bit too
long for that particular question but
what I'm trying to show you is that you
need to extend the length of your
answers to show off your English skills
what the IELTS examiner might do if
there's if they want to move on and ask
you the next question they'll you have
to read their body language they'll go
like that and then you'll stop that's it
then they'll say okay next question so
let's go to the next question
I want you to speak for around 15
seconds maybe even 20 seconds starting
now tell me about your hometown
you
excellent okay now I'm going to ask you
a question I want it again speak for 20
seconds do you like rain
odd right very strange question anyway I
actually got this question I've done the
IELTS three times just for for the
experience of it and I've had this
question twice do you like rain let me
ask you another question because this is
another one they that I that they asked
me after it was have you ever been
caught in the rain I want you to speak
for 20 seconds on that question have you
ever been caught in the rain whoops I
can't give you 20 seconds there anyway
I'll time you sorry my time it didn't
work
stopwatch 20 seconds have you ever been
caught in the rain
okay stop right now we're going to move
on to part two so what's going to happen
now is the examiners going to give you a
task card that will have a topic on it
you will have one minute to prepare to
speak then you'll have to speak for two
minutes on that task card topic this is
probably the most difficult part of the
IELTS speaking exam I think because very
rarely in life do we just speak for one
minute on a particular topic it's very
unnatural okay but there's a really good
method I want to show you I've used it
I've done this test three times I've got
nine each time and in the last two times
I used this method and I got nines as
well so it works it really does work let
me show you what this method is so let's
say this is the task card it says talk
about a place where people go to listen
to music you should say where the place
is what type of music is played there
what type of people it attracts and
explain whether you go there or not and
why okay this is actually the task card
that I was given on test day my most
recent test day now hmm
how am I going to speak for two minutes
on this I could it's it's going to be
difficult I need a method so what I'm
going to do is I'm going to tell three
stories a past story a present story in
a future story we call it PPF if you
want to memorize that makes it easier
past present future so when I look at my
task card I want to think to myself in
that one minute preparation time okay
where is a place where people go to
listen to music that happened in my past
where is one that happened in the future
and where would this is where you need
to get a little bit creative and you're
allowed to go off-topic I'll show you
that in a second there's no criterion
that says you must speak precisely on
topic so you're allowed to sort of move
around on this task card as long as
you're speaking about the topic of music
fine and the place where music is played
your
to sort of go off topic a little bit so
you need to be creative so a past story
a present story in a future story let me
give you an example you need to make up
three stories based loosely on past
present and possible future experiences
let me say that again make up three
stories based loosely on past present
and possible future experiences let me
tell you how you scored in IELTS you
scored this is the official IELTS
criteria so you scored on fluency
coherence lexical resource for medical
range and accuracy and pronunciation
what that means is your scored on your
fluency how you speak with that do you
speak without hesitating or do you stop
do you search for words do you restart
sentences your scored on coherence how
well your story links together you've
got on vocabulary grammar and
pronunciation
there's nothing about topic in the IELTS
scoring criteria so if your teachers
tell you that the PPF method is wrong in
fact your teacher is wrong because this
criteria you can find this on the
Internet
and I've also spoken to IELTS examiner's
who confirm that this is fine to do it
works I've done it it works so let's
keep moving on I'll show you an example
of how this works right so let's say
I've got one minute
when I get my task card to prepare now
you'll notice that one minute on test
day goes really really quickly because
you're nervous because it's a strange
experience so I read this task on it
says talk about a building you like you
should say where the building is what it
looks like what it is useful and explain
why you like it talk about a building I
like okay I don't have enough time to
write anything down except for maybe
three words or you know three main
points so that's what I'm going to do so
I think okay three building a building
building ok building from my past
building from my past no my clock will
stop I'm gonna say ok my primary school
I'm gonna
talk about my primary school it's an
interesting building out in the
countryside
it's very nice okay I can talk about
that present okay my my I'm gonna talk
about my apartment okay so that's when I
write down here and future future future
okay okay okay my my okay a building I
like my okay my dream house whatever
comes into your mind you're not going to
have time to go through different
scenarios okay you just have to think
very quickly and basically write down
three things primary school my apartment
my dream house this one we spoken about
in the past this one we've spoken about
in the present this one will be spoken
about in the future now why do we do
this well let's see sorry that that
clock we do this because if we're
speaking about the past I'm going to use
past tense verbs did was okay so for my
school I could say something like my
primary school was a very interesting
building it
it was located or it is located that's a
present tense for I won't get into it
but you can see what's going on here
you're starting to use past tense verbs
if you're talking about the present for
example have been recently I have been
living in my apartment in Melbourne
Australia blah blah blah blah blah
you're going to start using present
perfect present perfect continuous verbs
and for the future which would be my
dream house in the future I'm going to
build a beautiful house that will have
seven bedrooms and six bathrooms and
blah blah blah blah blah and you're also
going to use modal verbs as well
all of these things will increase your
grammar score your vocabulary score and
maybe even your coherence score it's
very very clever anyway let's do it
enough waffling let's just do this
here's your task card you have one
minute to prepare starting now
you
okay you can begin speaking
starting now
you
right that's the end of your two minutes
how did you go did you speak for two
minutes in length and just put into the
chat whether you were able to speak for
two minutes yes or no
good excellent yes yes yes good
somebody spoke for a minute and 50
seconds most people were able to speak
for 2 minutes 1 minute 35 okay you need
to practice this because you need to
start to be able to speak for two
minutes you need to know when to finish
your past story and move on to your
present story you need to know when to
finish your present story and move on to
your future story okay cool
excellent that's good news that's really
good news I tell you why this is also a
very good way to maximize your speaking
scores is because what people usually do
in IELTS speaking they speak about one
story and they tell a story then they
tell the same story again then they tell
it again and then they just sort of lost
and I think well I've got nothing else
to stay it's telling three it just makes
it easy and sequential and far better
all right it's not over yet just before
we move on to part three I've got a
couple of things to suggest if you need
help with your IELTS number one if you
need help with your IELTS I suggest you
go to this website and sign up for a
free account okay you'll get some free
practice materials including reading and
writing etc if you really need help then
I suggest you upgrade your free account
to a paid package which will give you
opportunities to take tutorials with
expert teachers to get some feedback on
your speaking and writing amongst other
things and we also have lots of great
practice material including methods etc
number two if you're feeling generous
and you're learning a lot from the e2
language free materials you can go to
this website which I'll put in the
description and you can feel free to
donate a small amount of money for
example two dollars or you can donate
whatever a hundred rupees whatever you
want to donate an e to language would be
much appreciated and also just before
you go make sure you subscribe to this
YouTube channel so you can get alert
when we upload new videos or if we're
live-streaming cool so just keep those
three things in mind all right let's
move on to part three now part three and
my most recent speaking test was I tell
you what it was fill
it was tricky questions this is an easy
one I just want you to speak actually I
think probably thirty seconds is
sufficient what genre of music do you
enjoy
you
okay I'm going to cut you off there
we're going to move to the neck
question which is extremely tricky tell
me which is more expressive language or
music
you
finally what is the relationship between
music and memory do you think
you
all right just before we end I'm gonna
go back whoops I'm just gonna go through
the answers that I gave on test day
because I actually had these questions
the examiner asked me these exact
questions I spoke well but it was really
complicated so this is what I did I said
okay what genre of music do you like or
what genre of music do you enjoy and I
said well I actually enjoy a range of
different music mainly because I've been
influenced by a range of different
people for example my best friend when I
was growing up introduced me to reggae
music and so I was I went through a
period of my life where I really enjoyed
listening to reggae music but most of
the influence that I have comes from my
father he introduced me to 60s and 70s
rock and roll so I've listened to a wide
variety of that type of music as well
more recent bla ba ba ba ba you get the
idea okay you need to just expressive
think about it let's have a look at this
second question because when she asked
me this I thought wow that is a really
tricky one which is more expressive
language or music talk about
philosophical I said hmm that's a tricky
question what do I think is more
expressive and I bought myself a little
bit of time to think about it and I said
well to be perfectly honest I think
actually language is more expressive
than music I believe that there are more
words than there are musical notes and
therefore it's easier to create
sentences and meaning using language
rather than music however I also believe
that music has more of an emotional
expression than language language is
probably more intellectual whereas music
is more emotional and I started just
talking about that sort of stuff okay
tough questions tough questions then she
said what is the relationship between
music and memory and I thought whoa this
is getting crazy I said well I certainly
think there is a relationship between
music and memory
I'm not sure how strong the relationship
is it's probably a weak one but
certainly when I hear certain music
attributes various memories that I have
for instance there's this one song that
I hear from the Beach Boys that makes me
think about TV commercials and that
makes me think about advertising and how
they put music in advertising to help us
remember certain restaurants or sporting
goods or whatever it is I believe these
this type of music is called a jingle
blah blah blah I just talked about that
sort of stuff and that's what you need
to do on test day you need to be smart
you need to be thoughtful you need to be
expressive okay tough because in order
to do that you need to have vocabulary
you need to have grammar and you need to
have pronunciation ability if you need
help do check out into language comm we
can help you with all of this sort of
stuff cool all right
so check out the website if you need
help sign up for free and think about
becoming a paid member and also feel
free to donate to e tu language if you
feel that we are helping you for free
all right let me answer some questions
in the chat then I'm gonna go and have
some lunch cuz I'm starving
okay how can we speak the last part oh
okay interesting good question I'll tell
you what happens here let me go back let
me go back so people know what you're
talking about here okay so a lot of
people when they're looking at this task
card they will they will they will do
answer this this and this but they'll
often forget this and it's not a big
problem it's not a big problem as I said
you can talk off-topic it's fine
so go talk about a place where people go
to listen to music and explain whether
you go there or not and why so for
instance one of the things I talked
about in the present and by the way I
didn't tell the truth I actually kind of
dislike seeing live music unless it's in
a concert theater I dislike noisy pubs
and night I hate nightclubs to be
perfectly honest
so I told an untruth and I said recently
I've been visiting a local pub in my
area called the North good social club
they have a range of different music
there including reggae and punk and
hip-hop and blah blah blah and then in
the last bit I said I enjoy going there
because it's a good social spot and
there are lots of my friends there etc
so yes you can keep that last bit in
mind but also keep in mind you don't
need to tell the truth you can be
dishonest it's not about honesty here
it's just about telling a story and your
story can be fictitious J do we need to
speak in the order of the questions
asked on the cue card the answer of that
is no you do not need to follow this and
what you'll find on test day is you'll
start talking about this and then you'll
start talking about something else then
you'll go back to this one and then you
might come back to this one and then you
might come back to here and then down to
here that's all fine again you do not
get graded on your ability to speak on
topic you're graded on grammar
vocabulary pronunciation fluency and
coherence not topic despite what your
teachers may tell you mmm I missed a lot
of your webinar how can i watch this
live class again it will be on YouTube
this one will be on YouTube or it will
be in the e to language platform
ah I won't ask answer that question
there J what do you recommend Oh et or I
ants good question okay so the oet is a
medical English test if you're a nurse
doctor physiotherapist dentist etc you
can take the OE T for registration in
Australia New Zealand Singapore and now
the UK as well look I think if you're a
nurse or a doctor
I think the OE T is probably a more
suitable test the vocabulary will be
more familiar to you and also it's a bit
like professional development it will
actually build your skills for when
you're working so that's a good question
oh he's just VSS should we explain the
last part of this question here in the
past present or future no you don't have
to to be honest you can just concentrate
on these three points and you can forget
this if you want I don't think I spoke
about it for example and it's fine cool
let me go to youtube live and answer a
few questions
ah do people are talking about
relationships between language and other
interesting
okay fuzzier says in one of the
questions I didn't understand the
meaning of the word expressive which is
more expressive language or music you
can ask the examiner to repeat the
question for you or you can say to the
examiner what do you mean by the word
expressive and the examiner will
rephrase the question for you in the
examine I'll say which one do you think
conveys more information or more feeling
okay more expressive so you can ask the
examiner questions don't be shy to do
that it's better to do that than to
speak completely you know to not answer
her question topics to which we can't
use the PPF method great question Manoj
okay
okay imagine if you get a topic card
that says talk about a childhood friend
okay so the cue card says talk about a
childhood friend say who the person was
you know why you whatever that would be
hard to make a past present and future
one but not really you could say you
could start in the past and say I'm
going to talk about my friend Johnny
Johnny was a great guy blah blah blah
blah more recently I've seen Johnny
again he's changed ba-ba-ba-ba-ba in the
future I hope that I'll see Johnny
develop into an interesting person you
have to be creative you have to use that
method and that task artist and bend it
so it works for you it is possible that
on test day you might get a topic that
you just can't think of it but it's also
up to you to practice this method the
PPF method with different cue cards so
you can start to get good at it no
matter what you get on test day you go
alright Bank phone bonk bonk and then
you speak for two minutes so in
listening and reading is it okay to
write in block letters yes I believe so
please check on that but I believe it is
okay to write in capital letters how
much our ATM is important in speaking
test i it doesn't say again the criteria
the criteria is vocabulary let's have a
quick look at the criteria again hold on
just give me one second here it is here
okay let me let's have a closer look at
this so this is band 9 okay let's have a
look at vocabulary it says users
vocabulary with flexibility and
precision ok users idiomatic language
what does that mean use users idiomatic
language ok
it doesn't mean that you have to talk
about the silver lining and raining cats
and dogs and kicking the bucket
idiomatic language means that you use
phrases that a native speaker would use
when talking about a specific topic okay
so if you're talking about music you
would say you know you use the word
genres and and and tempo and you know
contemporary music or something like
that this is also a DI Matic language
it's not necessarily funny phrases it's
it's it's words that are related to that
topic that a native English speaker
would use in an in a normal circumstance
that's idiomatic language so it doesn't
sound strange it sounds natural okay
that's what that means good question
okay do you know in in part three of
speaking the discussion is it necessary
to speak as much as I can or just say
like two sentences you definitely need
to say more than two sentences in part
three you should probably say as much as
you can and let the examiners stop you
okay if you just said two sentences like
what's the relationship between music
and language okay which is more
expressive music or language and you
said I think language is more expressive
because it has a wider vocabulary it's
not enough you need to keep going you
need to give details you need to be
thoughtful you need to think it through
and give a thorough answer good question
okay cool that's it thanks very much
good luck
happy holidays Merry Christmas I hope
you have a nice safe happy new year good
luck in your IELTS test and I will see
you soon
you